### Discussion questions


- What's the difference between null and undefined?
- What is a value? What is an expression? What is a statement?
- What are the different parts of a function?
- What is the difference between call-by-value and call-by-sharing?
- What is function scope?
- What is a free variable?
- What is the difference between a function and a closure?
- How are values evaluated in lexical scoping?
- What is global scope?
- What are two ways to name a variable?
- What is the difference between binding a function to a variable, naming a function, and declaring a function?
- What are the two types of higher order functions? What's the difference between them?
- What is `this`? How does it behave differently between methods and functions?
- What is `arguments`?


### Exercises

- Write a function that will calculate the [fibonacci sequence](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number) to a requested term, using only functions (no looping constructs) with recursion.
- Write a function that adds a variable defined in the global scope to a variable defined in parent scope to a variable defined in local scope, using partial application.
- Write a function decorator that takes two arrays and gives them to the decorated function as a single plain old javascript object.
- Write a function decorator that concatenates the items of a function that returns a list of strings.
- Create a function that takes a list of numbers and returns a function that takes a single number and returns the original list with each item multiplied by the number.
- Write a function based on variadic that manipulates elements in the DOM
- Write a function that retrieves something from Local Storage and `tap` it two different ways.
- Attach an event handler to an element and trigger it.


### The project

Vote on what project you would like to do. The options are listed below, with a short summary of why we might/might not want to do it. To vote, add your name as a bullet point under the description. Feel free to vote 2 or 3 times. Please have you votes in by next Wednesday. Also email me your votes, in case your github change doesn't work.

#### Date/time picker (1)

Dates are hard. Consider: leap years/days/seconds, irregular month lengths, weeks don't ever divide equally into anything else; time zones vary, daylight savings occurs at different times and in different ways depending on time zone; time slots may not be contained within days/weeks/months. We should not do this project, because it would require too much domain-specific knowledge, and we would almost certainly get it wrong.

Voters:
    
- 

#### Graphing library (2)

Geometry is great, because you can get as technical or as heavy handed as you like. Shapes are made of other shapes, which mirrors functional programming well. This is of course a solved problem, but it would definitely be fun.

Voters:
    
- 

#### Color picker (3)

Another solved problem, and a small one at that - but there are a few ways you can lay color out.

Voters:
    
- 

#### Path-finding library (4)

This would be a good opportunity to implement some basic machine-learning techniques. It would also challenge us to come up with an intelligent data structure. This would be compact and hard, but totally cool.

Voters:
    
- Feusi
- Courtney

#### Data converter (5)

Similar to path-finding in that it'll be pretty abstract. There will be a lot of opportunities for recursion here, as well as swappable implementation-specific code.

Voters:
    
- 

#### Password keeper (6)

Opportunity to learn cryptography. It's a pretty basic thing as far as programming goes, so not a very exciting project.

Voters:
    
- 

#### Blogging platform (7)

The classic first-web-application. Certainly a solved problem, but well defined.

Voters:
    
- 

#### Social network (8)

This has a lot of potential because people are complex. They become data, and you manage the connections between them. This could be interesting, and could go in any direction. Feusi mentioned doing a family-oriented one. I think that's a great idea. Think about other ways email isn't good enough, too.

Voters:
    
- Austin
- Courtney

#### Accounting software/online spreadsheet (9)

Computers are very well suited to crunching numbers. Similar to the time picker though, it would be hard to know the requirements for a project like this.

Voters:
    
- 

#### Chat application (10)

Great opportunity to work with sockets and message passing.

Voters:
    
- Staab
- Austin

#### A game (11)

Graphics are hard and time consuming, but games are almost always super fun to write.

Voters:
    
- 

#### File browser (12)

We don't even think about file browsers. They are somewhat blah. But I think we could write some kind of specialized file browser for a particular purpose such as managing a git repository, diffing files, re-organizing messy file structures, etc. We could potentially do this as part of Austin's semantic data store.

Voters:
    
- Staab

#### Scheduling program - merging schedules for people in food service or other businesses (13)

I think this is a great idea. Solves a very real problem. Adoption might be hard, but that's way ahead of us. This would have some of the problems attached to the date picker library stuff, but using iCal or something as a standard we might be able to handle it. A bonus is that this could be used by the Hope Center in real life.

Voters:
    
- 

#### Distributed sensor networks - real time data IO (14)

Lots of ways this could be applied. Setting up nodes that work either on a peer-to-peer basis (like nanorobots?!) or are beholden to a master would be a good opportunity for code re-use and data aggregation.

Voters:
    
- 

#### Semantic data store with wiki revisioning built in (15)

This sounds a lot like the [dat project](http://dat-data.com/), which is really cool. We could re-do what they are doing, or we could incorporate their system into what we build. There is a "Civic Hacking" movement going on right now, and dat is connected to it. We could help Moscow with something there.

Voters:
    
- Staab
- Austin

#### Linear algebra library (16)

This sounds like it would have a pretty steep learning curve for figuring out the math. I'm all for that, but it might be a bit much for everyone to handle, especially since we're already going to be working on the functional programming stuff.

Voters:
    
- Courtney

#### Video Store Online Database (17)

_nb: this is from Austin, just throwing this out there - is that something I can do? If not, disregard_

Howard Hughes Video is in a slowly dying industry. They still offer value (carrying obscure titles that are increasingly harder to find through streaming services), but the obstacles are high. For most consumers, the convenience of search trumps the serendipity of browsing haphazardly-arranged shelves (is it in 'Cult Classics' or 'Critics Choice'?) every time.

Something that would help is making their inventory searchable online. This would require some kind of file browsing (I believe their current system runs on a DOS box) and crossing the information with the tMDB API.

Voters:
    
- Austin

#### Absolutely secure communication (18)

_This is from Chris_

There's a simple way to transmit data in an absolutely secure way. It's called the Vernam cypher or One Time Pad, and it was used by the KGB. You take a message and add each character to a 'pad' of totally random data, or subtract the same pad from the encrypted data to get the plaintext back out.

I think it would be grand to build a little server application that lets parties communicate with each other using this cipher. Think: absolutely secure chatting and dropbox. Sound fun? 

Voters:

- Chris 


### Extra reading

Again, just glance at these.

- [Currying](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Currying) is a strategy for partial application.
- [let](http://stackoverflow.com/a/11444416/1467342)
- [Evaluation strategies](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evaluation_strategy)

There are tons of awesome built-in apis in client and server side javascript. Skim the following pages:

- [Web workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/Performance/Using_web_workers)
- [AJAX](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XMLHttpRequest)
- [DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model)
    - [Promises](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
    - [Events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event)
    - [Elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element)
    - [Window](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window)
    - [Sockets](http://socket.io/)

Check out these functional programming javascript libraries briefly:

- [functional](http://osteele.com/sources/javascript/functional/)
- [ap](https://github.com/substack/node-ap)
- [Lemonad](https://github.com/fogus/lemonad)
