### Discussion questions
- What is a closure and why is it great?
- What's the difference between a method and a function in javascript?
- Why composition instead of inheritance?
- What is factoring? Howabout refactoring? What does that have to do with closures?
- How does extension violate encapsulation? What would be a good way to manage this?
- How can keeping track of state using closures prevent re-usability?
- What determines how context is bound?
- What is the difference between call, apply, and bind?
- Why should decorated recursive functions not necessarily be named?


### Exercises

Note: from now on you'll find exercise solutions in `/exercises/{chapters}/{number}.js`

1. Implement a model of a dvd rental using closures to store/hide state. The model should have the public methods `isAvailable`, `checkOut`, `checkIn` and `getInfo`. Keep track of whether the thing is available so that the user of the object can't change it without using `checkOut` or `checkIn`. Save some information in the model that can't be changed by the user of the model, and return it via `getInfo`. Try to make two different rentals at once.
2. Grab the underscore library and require it in node. Then write a function that returns an object with all property/value pairs that start with a certain string, copied from a provided object. Use _.keys and _.pick, or some better combination of methods from underscore. Here's an example:

```
x = {'one_thing': 1, "one_man": "George", "two_dogs": ['ruby', 'sniffles']};
y = fn(x, "one_");
// => {'one_thing': 1, "one_man": "George"}
```

3. Make a singleton object representing a connection to a database using a private closure. No matter how many times it's instantiated, it always returns the same connection id. If you call the `close` method and reopen it though, the connection id should be different.
4. Set up a http server in node and run it, then make a request to it from the client and show the contents of that request in the dom. (http://www.nodebeginner.org/#a-basic-http-server)
5. Set up a websocket connection between a server and a client and print messages to the dom. (http://socket.io/docs/)