## Chapter 1: Basic Functions

### undefined
- a value in the same way integers are
- void 0 is the best way to get the undefined value

### Statements
- Separated with line breaks or semicolons

### Function basics
- Functions are values with identity, like arrays
- Functions can be _applied_ to other values
- Functions are expressions (like any other value), which evaluate to themselves
- Syntax - function + (arguments) + { body }
- Function bodies are a series of statements.
	- Since functions can be used in statements, functions can be defined inside functions
	- `return` creates a statement that immediately terminates the function application and returns the result of evaluating its expression - this can be any expression.
- Argument passing
	- The value of an argument is placed in the dictionary used to define variables inside a function.
	- Value types are passed using call-by-value semantics, which evaluates the arguments before applying the function to them. The variables inside the function are copies of and disassociated from the originals outside the function.
	- Reference types are passed using call-by-sharing semantics, which passes a reference to the original value. That means modifications to these types get applied to the originals, outside the function.
	- [This guy](http://skilldrick.co.uk/2010/12/clearing-up-the-confusion-around-javascript-references/) says the difference is that value types are immutable and reference types are mutable.
- Closures and scope
	- A free variable is a variable not bound within a function - it gets its identity from outside the function's own dictionary.
		- Functions containing no free variables are called pure functions.
		- Functions containing one or more free variables are called closures.
	- Scope is the dictionary that defines variables in a function or closure.
	- A scope includes a key '..' that contains the dictionary used by the parent scope
	- When evaluating variables, the immediate scope is used first, but for anything not defined locally, the parent definitions are inherited. If a variable is defined in a parent's scope as well as the local scope, the local one is used. This is called shadowing.
	- [Currying](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Currying) is a strategy for partial application.
	- Top level scope is called global scope, which is full of standard library functions and data.
- Naming variables
	- We can name variables without modifying an environment by creating a new environment - this is what we do with passing parameters to anonymous functions. This is know as Immediately Invoked Function Expression (IIFE), or 'let' ([more on let](http://stackoverflow.com/a/11444416/1467342))
	- The `var` keyword binds a value to a variable - it modifies the current environment rather than creating a new one.
	- It can bind the result of any expression to a variable.
	- Naming functions
		- var can not name a function - it can bind an anonymous function to a variable.
		- syntax: `y = function x(){}` - x is the name of the function; y would be a property of the environment. x is undefined in the enclosing environment, but would be defined inside the function - useful for recursion.
		- Function declarations: `function x(){}` is similar to `var x = function x(){}` difference:
			- var bindings are hoisted - if you use var anywhere in a scope, that keyword becomes undefined by default
			- function declarations are hoisted too, but the definition as well as the name is available throughout the scope.
- Higher order functions
    - A Higher Order Function is one which either takes a function as an argument, returns a function, or does both.
    - Combinators take only functions as arguments, and return a function
    - Decorators are higher-order functions that take one function as an argument, and return another function which is a variation of the argument function.
- Composition and partial application can be used together to create readable, lightweight code.
    - The goal is to have clearly named functions - we can create those functions with composition and partial application
- Magic inside functions
	- `this` is bound to the context. Functions are "context aware", meaning they do not need to have `this` explicitly defined when `apply`'d or `call`ed. Methods are not context aware, meaning context can be changed on application.
	- arguments is a list of arguments given


## Thoughts
- Function application is the same as operator evaluation
- Get past the syntax a function is not "function(){}", it's something that can be applied to something else to produce a value.
- Check out [Evaluation strategies](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evaluation_strategy).
- Compare let and IIFE

## Discussion questions recap

- What's the difference between null and undefined?
- What is a value? What is an expression? What is a statement?
- What are the different parts of a function?
	- arguments
	- body
	- return statement
- What is the difference between call-by-value and call-by-sharing?
	- Value types are passed using call-by-value semantics, which evaluates the arguments before applying the function to them. The variables inside the function are copies of and disassociated from the originals outside the function.
	- Reference types are passed using call-by-sharing semantics, which passes a reference to the original value. That means modifications to these types get applied to the originals, outside the function.
- What is function scope?
	- Scope is the dictionary that defines variables in a function or closure.
- What is a free variable?
	- A free variable is a variable not bound within a function - it gets its identity from outside the function's own dictionary.
- What is the difference between a function and a closure?
	- Functions containing no free variables are called pure functions.
	- Functions containing one or more free variables are called closures.
- How are values evaluated in lexical scoping?
	- When evaluating variables, the immediate scope is used first, but for anything not defined locally, the parent definitions are inherited. If a variable is defined in a parent's scope as well as the local scope, the local one is used. This is called shadowing.
- What is global scope?
	- Top level scope is called global scope, which is full of standard library functions and data.
- What are two ways to name a variable?
	- Parameters - creating a new environment and evaluating it (IIFE/let)
	- var - modifying an existing environment
- What is the difference between binding a function to a variable, naming a function, and declaring a function?
	- var bindings are hoisted - if you use var anywhere in a scope, that keyword becomes undefined by default
	- function declarations are hoisted too, but the definition as well as the name is available throughout the scope.
	- a function is named when it is declared, but not when it is merely bound.
- What are the two types of higher order functions? What's the difference between them?
	- Combinators take only functions as arguments, and return a function
    - Decorators are higher-order functions that take one function as an argument, and return another function which is a variation of the argument function.
- What is `this`? How does it behave differently between methods and functions?
	- `this` is bound to the context. Functions are "context aware", meaning they do not need to have `this` explicitly defined when `apply`'d or `call`ed. Methods are not context aware, meaning context can be changed on application.
- What is `arguments`?
	- Array-like (numeric string keys)
	- a list of all arguments passed in to a function

## Exercise solutions
- Write a function that will calculate the [fibonacci sequence](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number) to a requested term, using only functions (no looping constructs) with recursion.

```
function fib(last, current, targetTerm, currentTerm){
    return currentTerm > targetTerm 
    	? current 
    	: fib(current, last + current, targetTerm, ++currentTerm);
};
fib(0, 1, 100, 0);

// or

function fib(targetTerm){
	return (function calculate(last, current, currentTerm){
		return currentTerm > targetTerm 
			? current 
			: calculate(current, last + current, ++currentTerm);
	})(0, 1, 0);
}
fib(100);
```

- Write a function that adds a variable defined in the global scope to a variable defined in parent scope to a variable defined in local scope, using partial application.

```
var x = 1;
function addToGlobal(){
	var y = 2;
	return function addToLocal(){
		var z = 3;
		return x + y + z;
	}
}
var sum = addToGlobal()();
```
- Write a function decorator that takes two arrays and gives them to the decorated function as a single plain old javascript object.

```
function arrayToObj(fn){
	return function(a1, a2){
		var i = 0, 
			obj = {};

		if(a1.length !== a2.length){
			throw new Error("The arrays must be the same length.");
		}

		for(i in a1){
			obj[a1[i]] = a2[i];
		}

		return fn(obj)
	}
}

newFn = arrayToObj(function(obj){ return obj; });
result = newFn(['key', 2, 3], ['lime', 3, 4]);

```

- Write a function decorator that concatenates the items of a function that returns a list of strings.

```
function returnStrings(){
	return ["one", 'two', "three"];
}

function concatAllDecorator(fn){
	return function(){
		return fn().join("");
	}
}

concatAllDecorator(returnStrings)();
```

- Create a function that takes a list of numbers and returns a function that takes a single number and returns the original list with each item multiplied by the number.

```
function setBaseNumbers(numbers){
	return function multiplyNumbersBy(i){
		return numbers.map(function(j){ return i * j; });
	}
}

setBaseNumbers([1, 3, 8])(3);
```

- Write a function based on variadic that manipulates elements in the DOM

```

var removeElements = variadic(function removeElements(action, tags){
	var i, j, elements;
	for(i = 0; i < tags.length; i++){
		elements = document[action](tags[i]);

		if(elements.length){
			for(j = 0; j < elements.length; j++){
				elements[j].remove();
			}
		}
		else {
			elements.remove();
		}
	}
});

removeElements('getElementsByTagName', 'div', 'h3', 'h2', 'img', 'a', 'p', 'ul');
removeElements('getElementById', 'wiki-document-head', 'main-header');

```

- Write a function that retrieves something from Local Storage and `tap` it two different ways.

```
function setToStorage(name, value){
	localStorage.setItem(name, value);
};

function getFromStorage(name){
	return localStorage.getItem(name);	
};

function setGlobal(name){
	window[name] = getFromStorage(name);
}

function deleteGlobal(name){
	window[name] = void 0;
}

setToStorage('banana', 4);

tapBanana = tap('banana');

console.log(banana);
tapBanana(setGlobal);
console.log(banana);
tapBanana(deleteGlobal);
console.log(banana);
```

- Attach an event handler to an element and trigger it.

```
p = document.getElementsByTagName('p')[0];
p.addEventListener('monkeybrains', function(evt){
	console.log(evt.type, evt);
});
p.dispatchEvent(new Event('monkeybrains'));

```