- References
    - identity types are stored by reference in variables, arrays, functions (call by sharing), objects
- Rebinding
    - If you shadow a variable using `var` in a child scope, the original variable remains unchanged.
    - If you shadow a variable, but omit `var`, the original is changed
    - If you re-bind an alias, the original value remains unchanged
- Mutation - properties of objects and elements in an array can be re-bound
    - If you mutate an alias, the original is changed
- Var
    - Var statements are hoisted - the variable is set to undefined until bound.
    - Always put var statements at the top of the relevant scope.
    - Always use the var keyword - mistakes here can cause unintended global variables. If you want a global, bind to window.
- Recursive functions are closures, which means if you rebind the `name` of the function anywhere, its recursion breaks.
- Mutual recursion can be broken by redefining either name in the enclosing environment. The solution is a module closure.
- A transient let discards its environment when it returns, and does not have side effects. It's basically a closure that protects a pure function.
- A private closure maintains state in a variable within the closure's scope. That variable is then referenced inside the returned function.
- A module is a private closure that returns more than one public function/variable.


### Discussion questions
- What is the result if you rebind an alias in a child scope vs if you mutate the alias?
    - If you re-bind an alias, the original value remains unchanged
    - If you mutate an alias, the original is changed
- How can you break or modify a recursive function from outside?
    - By rebinding the name of the function to another value
- Why can't you break a recursive function by rebinding the function's name inside?
    - The name of the function bound within the function is read-only
- What is a transient let?
    - A transient let discards its environment when it returns, and does not have side effects. It's basically a closure that protects a pure function, since it only uses its own environment to generate the result.
- Why is the Y combinator cool?
    - It lets us perform recursion using only `let`, with no modification of environments, or naming variables.
- Why is `flip` useful?
    - It lets you curry from the start or the end of the arguments list.

### Exercises
- Write a set of mutually recursive functions
```
deepMap = (function(){
    function deepMap(list, fn){
        var i;
        for(i = 0; i < list.length; i++){
            list[i] = processItem(list[i], fn);
        }

        return list;
    };

    function processItem(item, fn){
        return item instanceof Array ? deepMap(item, fn) : fn(item);
    }

    return deepMap;
})();
```
- Use a private closure to implement a function that returns the result of concatenating all arguments ever passed to it together.
```
concatAll = (function setUpConcat(){
    var all = '';

    return function concatAll(s){
        all += s;
        return all;
    }
})();
```