- Functional programming is [idempotent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence)
- Encapsulating State with Closures
- Free variables are lexically scoped - visible by reading the source; `this` is bound on function invokation, so you can't know this when just reading the source.
- Make sure to maintain context when writing decorators/combinators.


### Discussion questions
- What is a closure and why is it great?
- What's the difference between a method and a function in javascript?
    - All methods are functions, but only functions belonging to objects and interacting with it are methods.
    - Static methods are just functions belonging to an object
- Why composition instead of inheritance?
    - http://www.c2.com/cgi/wiki?CompositionInsteadOfInheritance
- What is factoring? Howabout refactoring? What does that have to do with closures?
    - The choice of how to divide a component into smaller components is called factoring, after the operation in number theory.
    - The simplest and easiest way to build components out of smaller components in JavaScript is also the most obvious: Each component is a value, and the components can be put together into a single object or encapsulated with a closure.
- How does extension violate encapsulation? What would be a good way to manage this?
    - If you want to extend something, you need access to its attributes.
    - You could maintain encapsulation by passing an extension to the original object creator to let that function do the work of extension, returning an extended and encapsulated object.
- How can keeping track of state using closures prevent re-usability?
    - Closures couple an environment to an object. If you do a deep copy on the object, the new object still shares the original environment.
- What determines how context is bound?
    - Syntax. If you use square bracket or dot notation to call it as a method, this is bound to the object. If you assign the method to a variable and call it, you get the global scope.

```
x = {one: function(){ return this; }, two: function(){ var one = this.one; return one(); } };
x.one()
//=> Object {one: function, two: function}
x.two()
//=> Window {top: Window, window: Window, location: Location, external: Object, chrome: Object…}
```

- What is the difference between call, apply, and bind?
- Why should decorated recursive functions not necessarily be named?
    - The name the decorated function is bound to is bound in the outer scope, but the function bound to the declared name inside the function's scope is pre-decoration.


### Exercises

Note: from now on you'll find exercise solutions in `/exercises/{chapters}/{number}.js`

1. Implement a model of a dvd rental using closures to store/hide state. The model should have the public methods `isAvailable`, `checkOut`, `checkIn` and `getInfo`. Keep track of whether the thing is available so that the user of the object can't change it without using `checkOut` or `checkIn`. Save some information in the model that can't be changed by the user of the model, and return it via `getInfo`. Try to make two different rentals at once.
2. Grab the underscore library and require it in node. Then write a function that returns an object with all property/value pairs that start with a certain string, copied from a provided object. Use _.keys and _.pick, or some better combination of methods from underscore. Here's an example:

```
x = {'one_thing': 1, "one_man": "George", "two_dogs": ['ruby', 'sniffles']};
y = fn(x, "one_");
// => {'one_thing': 1, "one_man": "George"}
```

3. Make a singleton object representing a connection to a database using a private closure. No matter how many times it's instantiated, it always returns the same connection id. If you call the `close` method and reopen it though, the connection id should be different.
4. Set up a http server in node and run it, then make a request to it from the client and show the contents of that request in the dom. (http://www.nodebeginner.org/#a-basic-http-server)
5. Set up a websocket connection between a server and a client and print messages to the dom.