- New keyword
    - new fn() creates an object. This object is an `instance` of the function. The function is a `constructor` of the instance.
    - Every function has its own unique prototype attached to it. If you assign properties to the prototype, and then use the function as a constructor, the resulting object will have the same properties.
    - If you change the value of an instance's property, it does not affect other instances, or the prototype. But if you change the value of a property on the prototype, it does affect other instances, if they haven't been changed.
    - All objects have a `constructor` property that points to the constructor.
- Boxed primitives
    - Everything acts like an object. To get primitives to act that way, when you call a method on one, javascript boxes it while applying the method, and unboxes it again. Using the constructor of the boxed version of a primitive returns the primitive.

### Discussion questions
- How can explicitly binding an instance to all the methods of the same instance on creation (e.g., using _.bindAll) cause problems with prototypal inheritance?
    - If a prototype's property is changed, instances generally inherit those changes unless already changed explicitly. _.bindAll breaks this functionality.
- What is the difference between currying and partial application?
    - Currying is converting a single function of n arguments into n functions with a single argument each.
    - Partial application is when you curry a function, and use some, but not all of the resulting functions.
- What is the difference between instance, object, and constructor methods?
    - Object methods are discrete methods assigned to objects themselves.
    - Instance methods are assigned to a Constructor's prototype, and shared between objects.
- Why is [YouAreDaChef](https://github.com/raganwald/YouAreDaChef#you-are-da-chef), (written by Raganwald himself) bad?
- What is the difference between assigning to `this` in a constructor and adding stuff to the prototype after class definition?
    - If you change the property assigned to the prototype, the instances inherit the change unless they've already assigned to that property. The values initialized cannot be changed my modifications to the prototype.

### Exercises

1. Write a constructor for a Car
    - It should have the following methods, shared between instances:
        - `accelerate`
        - `decelerate`
    - Make sure initial state of on/off and speed are set in the constructor so that they are not shared between instances
    - Make accelerate depend on a `getMaxSpeed` method, added to each object, not to the instance.
    - Don't worry about encapsulation for now - all the properties can be public. Just don't use them publicly
2. Inherit from your Car model to create a Truck model with a `bedCapacity` property, and `fillBed` and `removeFromBed` methods that take a value.
3. Mix into the Truck model a `ManualTransmission` mixin with methods `getRpm`, `setGear`
4. Let's do some dynamic prototypal inheritance - after you define Car and Truck, the government secretly installes kill switch backdoors into all your vehicles! Add to your Car prototype a `killAll` method that prevents any car or truck from running. On a particular object, override the method so you're safe from the government.
5. Using compose/pipeline, write a pipe that takes a value and, in order, adds 3, multiplies by 5, and subtracts 6.
6. Write a pipe object that does its operations in order on the passed value. Let the user of the object inject functions anywhere in the pipeline using `insert`. Use a function for the base object rather than an object, so that you can just call the pipe with a value to run it. [hint](http://stackoverflow.com/a/17111430)
7. Use each of the following underscore methods in the exercises. If you can't integrate them into an exercise, just make something up so you know your tools.
    - each
    - map
    - reduce
    - reduceRight
    - find
    - filter
    - where
    - findWhere
    - reject
    - every
    - some
    - contains
    - invoke
    - pluck
    - max
    - min
    - sortBy
    - groupBy
    - indexBy
    - countBy
    - shuffle
    - sample
    - toArray
    - size
    - partition


#### Automated tests

Add these test cases to your code for each example, then run it in node. Include the assert module by `requiring` it. You'll have to change the path to the file.

1.

```
var assert = require("PATH_TO/js-allonge/exercises/assert.js");

var car = new Car();
car.getMaxSpeed = function getMaxSpeed(){
    return 65;
};

car.accelerate(30);
assert(car.speed === 30, "Accelerate succeeded.");
car.accelerate(40);
assert(car.speed === car.getMaxSpeed(), "Max speed applied on excessive acceleration.");
car.decelerate(20);
assert(car.speed === car.getMaxSpeed() - 20, "Decelerate succeeded.");
car.decelerate(car.getMaxSpeed());
assert(car.speed === 0, "Min speed of 0 applied on excessive deceleration.");
```

2.

```
var assert = require("PATH_TO/js-allonge/exercises/assert.js");

var truck = new Truck();
truck.getMaxSpeed = function getMaxSpeed(){
    return 55;
};

truck.accelerate(30);
assert(truck.speed === 30, "Accelerate succeeded.");
truck.accelerate(40);
assert(truck.speed === truck.getMaxSpeed(), "Max speed applied on excessive acceleration.");
truck.decelerate(20);
assert(truck.speed === truck.getMaxSpeed() - 20, "Decelerate succeeded.");
truck.decelerate(truck.getMaxSpeed());
assert(truck.speed === 0, "Min speed of 0 applied on excessive deceleration.");

truck.fillBed(300);
assert(truck.bedFilled === 300, "FillBed succeeded.");
truck.fillBed(400);
assert(truck.bedFilled === truck.bedCapacity, "Max capacity applied on excessive bed filling.");
truck.removeFromBed(200);
assert(truck.bedFilled === truck.bedCapacity - 200, "Remove from bed succeeded.");
truck.removeFromBed(truck.bedCapacity);
assert(truck.bedFilled === 0, "Min capacity of 0 applied on excessive bed removal.");
```

6. 

```
var assert = require("PATH_TO/js-allonge/exercises/assert.js");

var pipe = new Pipe();
pipe.append(function(v){ return v + 2; });
pipe.append(function(v){ return v * 2; });
pipe.prepend(function(v){ return v - 2; });
pipe.insert(1, function(v){ return v + 10; });

// Actual order:
// ((((value - 2) + 10) + 2) * 2)

assert(pipe(3) === 26, "Piping 3 returned 26.");
assert(pipe(-3) === 14, "Piping -3 returned 14.");
assert(pipe(-20) === -20, "Piping -20 returned 26.");
```